---
title: Bread and Wine on the Table
date: 2020-07-13
---


Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a 20thc Jesuit philosopher prayed, Since once again, Lord, I have neither bread nor wine,
nor altar, I will raise myself beyond these symbols, up to the pure majesty of the real itself; I, your priest, will make
the whole world my altar and on it will offer you all the labours and suffering of the world.
 
The end of lockdown feels so tantalizingly close.  We see the world shifting and want to shift with it.  The danger is
that we move too quickly, that we rush back to the normal we knew.  And yet the lockdown has not been lifted; eased, yes, 
but lifted, no.

This still gives us time to reflect on what it means to have the whole world as our altar, a sacred and holy thing.  
Already people are revaluating their lives.  There is one report in the weekend newspapers carried out by Britain Thinks, 
that people want a fairer and kinder society, post lockdown.  In fact, only 12% of those polled want things exactly as it was before.
That has always been our vision.  We call it the Kingdom of God, or the Kin-dom of God.

We probably will not have bread nor wine nor altar or Table as we Methodists often say, until September at the earliest.
However as Pierre reminds us, we can rise above these symbols and be as them for the world.  That is our faith in action.
 
We will return to our churches and bread and wine and Table, but until then, we may engage once again with God's vision of
Shalom, of harmony, justice and peace, for all creation.   It gives us time to pray and discern where God is calling us to
be in our communities and world.

Please continue to use this time to say not 'We can't do that', but rather, 'we can do that'.   In so doing we will join 
in solidarity with sisters and brothers around the world, and throughout history, who seek to bear authentic witness 
wherever they are, and often without the very symbols of our faith.

The symbols are important, do not get me wrong.  I miss them as well.  But there is something in here about our very lives
becoming the symbols of our faith.

How do we live peace, justice, and reconciliation, hope wherever we are?  How do we encourage people to live as these 
symbols in everyday life?  In our workplaces, places of recreation, homes and families, and in other places, how do we 
live as bread, wine and Table?  These symbols may not be in our workplaces nor in the shops, nor even in our homes, but 
they are there, because we are.

We are still in lockdown, modified though it may be.  The symbols are still ours, for that is our faith.  For we know God
is with us as we are not alone.  Continue to use this time to be living symbols.   Offer your best to God and creation, 
whom God loves, as a witness.  Fulfil the government and Methodist guidelines for opening as a witness to your belief in 
God's vision that all should be safe.

And let us rejoice when we gather once again, in the midst of the symbols of our faith, in safety and joy.

Tina Swire

